TITLE: Photoelectrochemical water splitting with ITO/WO3/BiVO4/CoPi multishell nanotubes fabricated by soft-templating in vacuum
EXPECTED TITLE: (will be captured from fetch)
DOMAIN HINT: Photoelectrochemical water splitting

ARXIV ID: 2211.11558
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.11558

FETCH STATUS: OK
FETCH ERROR: (none)

RETRIEVAL DATE: 2026-08-04
RETRIEVAL METHOD: z-ai page_reader from arxiv.org (live fetch)
SOURCE VERIFICATION: curl -I https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.11558 returns HTTP 200 (PR-19)

ABSTRACT (extracted from arxiv.org):
A well-established procedure for the photoelectrochemical (PEC) splitting of water relies on using porous electrodes of WO3 sensitized with BiVO4 as a visible scavenger photoanode semiconductor. In this work, we propose an evolved photoelectrode fabricated by a soft-template approach consisting of supported multishell nanotubes (NTs). These NTs are formed by a concentric layered structure of indium tin oxide (ITO), WO3, and BiVO4, together with a final film of cobalt phosphate (CoPi) co-catalyst. Photoelectrode manufacturing is easily implemented at large scale and combines thermal evaporation of single crystalline organic nanowires (ONWs), magnetron sputtering (for ITO and WO3), solution dripping, and electrochemical deposition processes (for BiVO4 and CoPi, respectively) plus annealing under mild conditions. The obtained NT electrodes depict a large electrochemically active surface and outperform by more than one order of magnitude the efficiency of equivalent planar-layered electrodes. A thorough electrochemical analysis of the electrodes under blue and solar light illumination demonstrates the critical role of the WO3/BiVO4 Schottky barrier heterojunction in the control of the NT electrode efficiency and its dependence on the BiVO4 outer layer thickness. Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance was maximized with the CoPi electrocatalyst, rendering high photocurrents under one sun illumination. The reported results demonstrate the potential of the soft-template methodology for the large area fabrication of highly efficient multishell ITO/WO3/BiVO4/CoPi NT electrodes, or other alternative combinations, for the photoelectrochemical splitting of water.

FULL FETCHED TEXT (truncated to 5000 chars for storage):
[2211.11558] Photoelectrochemical water splitting with ITO/WO3/BiVO4/CoPi multishell nanotubes fabricated by soft-templating in vacuum Skip to main content System maintenance August 4th and 5th Learn more × Search Submit Donate Log in Search arXiv Press Enter to search · Advanced search --> Physics > Chemical Physics arXiv:2211.11558 (physics) [Submitted on 21 Nov 2022] Title: Photoelectrochemical water splitting with ITO/WO3/BiVO4/CoPi multishell nanotubes fabricated by soft-templating in vacuum Authors: Jorge Gil-Rostra , Javier Castillo-Seoane , Qian Guo , Ana Jorge Sobrido , Agustín R. González-Elipe , Ana Borrás View a PDF of the paper titled Photoelectrochemical water splitting with ITO/WO3/BiVO4/CoPi multishell nanotubes fabricated by soft-templating in vacuum, by Jorge Gil-Rostra and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: A well-established procedure for the photoelectrochemical (PEC) splitting of water relies on using porous electrodes of WO3 sensitized with BiVO4 as a visible scavenger photoanode semiconductor. In this work, we propose an evolved photoelectrode fabricated by a soft-template approach consisting of supported multishell nanotubes (NTs). These NTs are formed by a concentric layered structure of indium tin oxide (ITO), WO3, and BiVO4, together with a final film of cobalt phosphate (CoPi) co-catalyst. Photoelectrode manufacturing is easily implemented at large scale and combines thermal evaporation of single crystalline organic nanowires (ONWs), magnetron sputtering (for ITO and WO3), solution dripping, and electrochemical deposition processes (for BiVO4 and CoPi, respectively) plus annealing under mild conditions. The obtained NT electrodes depict a large electrochemically active surface and outperform by more than one order of magnitude the efficiency of equivalent planar-layered electrodes. A thorough electrochemical analysis of the electrodes under blue and solar light illumination demonstrates the critical role of the WO3/BiVO4 Schottky barrier heterojunction in the control of the NT electrode efficiency and its dependence on the BiVO4 outer layer thickness. Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance was maximized with the CoPi electrocatalyst, rendering high photocurrents under one sun illumination. The reported results demonstrate the potential of the soft-template methodology for the large area fabrication of highly efficient multishell ITO/WO3/BiVO4/CoPi NT electrodes, or other alternative combinations, for the photoelectrochemical splitting of water. Comments: Manuscript: 39 pages, 8 figures and 1 table. SI: 15 pages, 9 figures and 1 table Subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph) Cite as: arXiv:2211.11558 [physics.chem-ph] (or arXiv:2211.11558v1 [physics.chem-ph] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2211.11558 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jorge Gil-Rostra [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 21 Nov 2022 15:23:12 UTC (16,167 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Photoelectrochemical water splitting with ITO/WO3/BiVO4/CoPi multishell nanotubes fabricated by soft-templating in vacuum, by Jorge Gil-Rostra and 4 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: physics.chem-ph < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-11 Change to browse by: physics References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an
