TITLE: Challenges and opportunities in piezoelectric polymers: Effect of oriented amorphous fraction in ferroelectric semicrystalline polymers
EXPECTED TITLE: (will be captured from fetch)
DOMAIN HINT: Piezoelectric polymer energy harvesting

ARXIV ID: 2506.18722
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.18722

FETCH STATUS: OK
FETCH ERROR: (none)

RETRIEVAL DATE: 2026-08-04
RETRIEVAL METHOD: z-ai page_reader from arxiv.org (live fetch)
SOURCE VERIFICATION: curl -I https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.18722 returns HTTP 200 (PR-19)

ABSTRACT (extracted from arxiv.org):
Despite extensive research on piezoelectric polymers since the discovery of piezoelectric poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) in 1969, the fundamental physics of polymer piezoelectricity has remained elusive. Based on the classic principle of piezoelectricity, polymer piezoelectricity should originate from the polar crystalline phase. Surprisingly, the crystal contribution to the piezoelectric strain coefficient d31 is determined to be less than 10%, primarily owing to the difficulty in changing the molecular bond lengths and bond angles. Instead, >85% contribution is from Poisson's ratio, which is closely related to the oriented amorphous fraction (OAF) in uniaxially stretched films of semicrystalline ferroelectric (FE) polymers. In this perspective, the semicrystalline structure-piezoelectric property relationship is revealed using PVDF-based FE polymers as a model system. In melt-processed FE polymers, the OAF is often present and links the crystalline lamellae to the isotropic amorphous fraction. Molecular dynamics simulations demonstrate that the electrostrictive conformation transformation of the OAF chains induces a polarization change upon the application of either a stress (the direct piezoelectric effect) or an electric field (the converse piezoelectric effect). Meanwhile, relaxor-like secondary crystals in OAF (SCOAF), which are favored to grow in the extended-chain crystal (ECC) structure, can further enhance the piezoelectricity. However, the ECC structure is difficult to achieve in PVDF homopolymers without high-pressure crystallization. We have discovered that high-power ultrasonication can effectively induce SCOAF in PVDF homopolymers to improve its piezoelectric performance. Finally, we envision that the electrostrictive OAF mechanism should also be applicable for other FE polymers such as odd-numbered nylons and piezoelectric biopolymers.

FULL FETCHED TEXT (truncated to 5000 chars for storage):
[2506.18722] Challenges and opportunities in piezoelectric polymers: Effect of oriented amorphous fraction in ferroelectric semicrystalline polymers Skip to main content Search Submit Donate Log in Search arXiv Press Enter to search · Advanced search --> Condensed Matter > Materials Science arXiv:2506.18722 (cond-mat) [Submitted on 23 Jun 2025] Title: Challenges and opportunities in piezoelectric polymers: Effect of oriented amorphous fraction in ferroelectric semicrystalline polymers Authors: Guanchun Rui , Elshad Allahyarov , Zhiwen Zhu , Yanfei Huang , Thumawadee Wongwirat , Qin Zou , Philip L. Taylor , Lei Zhu View a PDF of the paper titled Challenges and opportunities in piezoelectric polymers: Effect of oriented amorphous fraction in ferroelectric semicrystalline polymers, by Guanchun Rui and 7 other authors View PDF Abstract: Despite extensive research on piezoelectric polymers since the discovery of piezoelectric poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) in 1969, the fundamental physics of polymer piezoelectricity has remained elusive. Based on the classic principle of piezoelectricity, polymer piezoelectricity should originate from the polar crystalline phase. Surprisingly, the crystal contribution to the piezoelectric strain coefficient d31 is determined to be less than 10%, primarily owing to the difficulty in changing the molecular bond lengths and bond angles. Instead, >85% contribution is from Poisson's ratio, which is closely related to the oriented amorphous fraction (OAF) in uniaxially stretched films of semicrystalline ferroelectric (FE) polymers. In this perspective, the semicrystalline structure-piezoelectric property relationship is revealed using PVDF-based FE polymers as a model system. In melt-processed FE polymers, the OAF is often present and links the crystalline lamellae to the isotropic amorphous fraction. Molecular dynamics simulations demonstrate that the electrostrictive conformation transformation of the OAF chains induces a polarization change upon the application of either a stress (the direct piezoelectric effect) or an electric field (the converse piezoelectric effect). Meanwhile, relaxor-like secondary crystals in OAF (SCOAF), which are favored to grow in the extended-chain crystal (ECC) structure, can further enhance the piezoelectricity. However, the ECC structure is difficult to achieve in PVDF homopolymers without high-pressure crystallization. We have discovered that high-power ultrasonication can effectively induce SCOAF in PVDF homopolymers to improve its piezoelectric performance. Finally, we envision that the electrostrictive OAF mechanism should also be applicable for other FE polymers such as odd-numbered nylons and piezoelectric biopolymers. Comments: 22 pages, 15 figures Subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci) ; Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph) Cite as: arXiv:2506.18722 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci] (or arXiv:2506.18722v1 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2506.18722 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Responsive Materials (Wiley) 2, e20240002 1-22 (2024) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1002/rpm.20240002 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Elshad Allahyarov [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 23 Jun 2025 14:57:47 UTC (7,230 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Challenges and opportunities in piezoelectric polymers: Effect of oriented amorphous fraction in ferroelectric semicrystalline polymers, by Guanchun Rui and 7 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cond-mat.mtrl-sci < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-06 Change to browse by: cond-mat cond-mat.soft physics physics.chem-ph References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recom
