TITLE: Reference compositions for bismuth telluride thermoelectric materials for low-temperature power generation
EXPECTED TITLE: (will be captured from fetch)
DOMAIN HINT: Thermoelectric bismuth telluride

ARXIV ID: 2507.06101
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.06101

FETCH STATUS: OK
FETCH ERROR: (none)

RETRIEVAL DATE: 2026-08-04
RETRIEVAL METHOD: z-ai page_reader from arxiv.org (live fetch)
SOURCE VERIFICATION: curl -I https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.06101 returns HTTP 200 (PR-19)

ABSTRACT (extracted from arxiv.org):
Thermoelectric (TE) technology enables direct heat-to-electricity conversion and is gaining attention as a clean, fuel-saving, and carbon-neutral solution for industrial, automotive, and marine applications. Despite nearly a century of research, apart from successes in deep-space power sources and solid-state cooling modules, the industrialization and commercialization of TE power generation remain limited. Since the new millennium, nanostructured bulk materials have accelerated the discovery of new TE systems. However, due to limited access to high-temperature heat sources, energy harvesting still relies almost exclusively on BiTe-based alloys, which are the only system operating stably near room temperature. Although many BiTe-based compositions have been proposed, concerns over reproducibility, reliability, and lifetime continue to hinder industrial adoption. Here, we aim to develop reference BiTe-based thermoelectric materials through data-driven analysis of Starrydata2, the world's largest thermoelectric database. We identify Bi0.46Sb1.54Te3 and Bi2Te2.7Se0.3 as the most frequently studied ternary compositions. These were synthesized using hot pressing and spark-plasma sintering. Thermoelectric properties were evaluated with respect to the processing method and measurement direction. The results align closely with the median of reported data, confirming the representativeness of the selected compositions. We propose these as reference BiTe materials, accompanied by transparent data and validated benchmarks. Their use can support the standardization of TE legs and modules while accelerating performance evaluation and industrial integration. We further estimated the performance of a thermoelectric module made from the reference composition, which gives the power output of over 2.51 W and an efficiency of 3.58% at a temperature difference of 120 K.

FULL FETCHED TEXT (truncated to 5000 chars for storage):
[2507.06101] Reference compositions for bismuth telluride thermoelectric materials for low-temperature power generation Skip to main content Search Submit Donate Log in Search arXiv Press Enter to search · Advanced search --> Condensed Matter > Materials Science arXiv:2507.06101 (cond-mat) [Submitted on 8 Jul 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 9 Jul 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Reference compositions for bismuth telluride thermoelectric materials for low-temperature power generation Authors: Nirma Kumari , Jaywan Chung , Seunghyun Oh , Jeongin Jang , Jongho Park , Ji Hui Son , SuDong Park , Byungki Ryu View a PDF of the paper titled Reference compositions for bismuth telluride thermoelectric materials for low-temperature power generation, by Nirma Kumari and 7 other authors View PDF Abstract: Thermoelectric (TE) technology enables direct heat-to-electricity conversion and is gaining attention as a clean, fuel-saving, and carbon-neutral solution for industrial, automotive, and marine applications. Despite nearly a century of research, apart from successes in deep-space power sources and solid-state cooling modules, the industrialization and commercialization of TE power generation remain limited. Since the new millennium, nanostructured bulk materials have accelerated the discovery of new TE systems. However, due to limited access to high-temperature heat sources, energy harvesting still relies almost exclusively on BiTe-based alloys, which are the only system operating stably near room temperature. Although many BiTe-based compositions have been proposed, concerns over reproducibility, reliability, and lifetime continue to hinder industrial adoption. Here, we aim to develop reference BiTe-based thermoelectric materials through data-driven analysis of Starrydata2, the world's largest thermoelectric database. We identify Bi0.46Sb1.54Te3 and Bi2Te2.7Se0.3 as the most frequently studied ternary compositions. These were synthesized using hot pressing and spark-plasma sintering. Thermoelectric properties were evaluated with respect to the processing method and measurement direction. The results align closely with the median of reported data, confirming the representativeness of the selected compositions. We propose these as reference BiTe materials, accompanied by transparent data and validated benchmarks. Their use can support the standardization of TE legs and modules while accelerating performance evaluation and industrial integration. We further estimated the performance of a thermoelectric module made from the reference composition, which gives the power output of over 2.51 W and an efficiency of 3.58% at a temperature difference of 120 K. Comments: 45 pages, 4 tables, 14 figures (DOI info added for future activation upon publication. Error updated for k_ph) Subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci) ; Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph) Cite as: arXiv:2507.06101 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci] (or arXiv:2507.06101v2 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.06101 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Science and Technology of Advanced Materials: Methods 5, 2586299 (2026) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1080/27660400.2025.2586299 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Byungki Ryu [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 8 Jul 2025 15:41:35 UTC (5,129 KB) [v2] Wed, 9 Jul 2025 07:00:45 UTC (3,254 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Reference compositions for bismuth telluride thermoelectric materials for low-temperature power generation, by Nirma Kumari and 7 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cond-mat.mtrl-sci < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-07 Change to browse by: cond-mat physics physics.comp-ph References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( 
