TITLE: Copper passivation procedure for water-filled copper cells for applications in metrology
ARXIV ID: 1211.7294v1
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7294v1
RETRIEVAL DATE: 2026-08-05
RETRIEVAL METHOD: arxiv.org API
SOURCE VERIFICATION: arxiv API XML
DOMAIN HINT: water_harvesting_2
AUTHORS: Bruno Buée; Alexandre Vergé; Vladimir Vidal; Eric Georgin; Fernando Sparasci
PUBLISHED: 2012-11-30T15:53:49Z

ABSTRACT:
In the framework of the European research project MeteoMet, the LNE-CNAM and the LNE-CETIAT are developing novel copper cells for the determination of the water vapour pressure equation and the measurement of the triple point of water temperature at the highest degree of accuracy. The Water Vapour Pressure Equation (WVPE) is the basic formula for the calculation of the vapour pressure and other humidity related quantities. Improvement in the uncertainty of the water vapour formulation in the temperature range between -80^{\cdot}C (and possibly down to -90^{\cdot}C) and +100^{\cdot}C is needed for the improvement of primary standards in the field of hygrometry. The Triple Point of Water (TPW, temperature 273,16 K) plays a key role in thermometry, because of its threefold function. On one side, it defines the temperature unit, the kelvin. On the other side, it is the reference point in Standard Platinum Resistance Thermometer (SPRT) calibrations, according to the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90). Finally, it is the connection point between the current definition of the kelvin and the future one, based on the Boltzmann constant. Copper cells for WVPE and TPW allow highly accurate temperature control, fast thermal response time and excellent thermal uniformity, because of the elevated copper thermal conductivity. Thus, they can be an outstanding tool for reducing measurement uncertainty. Nevertheless, accurate filling techniques and procedures are necessary, to minimize water contamination and get stable, accurate and reproducible results. This report describes the filling system and the copper passivation and cleaning procedure, as well as the method for filling copper cells with high-purity water.
