TITLE: Similarities and Distinctions in Cosmic-Ray Modulation during Different Phases of Solar and Magnetic Activity Cycles
ARXIV ID: 1312.2002v1
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.2002v1
RETRIEVAL DATE: 2026-08-05
RETRIEVAL METHOD: arxiv.org API
SOURCE VERIFICATION: arxiv API XML
DOMAIN HINT: hydrogen
AUTHORS: O. P. M. Aslam;  Badruddin
PUBLISHED: 2013-12-06T07:28:27Z

ABSTRACT:
We study the solar-activity and solar-polarity dependence of galactic cosmic-ray intensity (CRI) on the solar and heliospheric parameters playing a significant role in solar modulation. We utilize the data for cosmic-ray intensity as measured by neutron monitors, solar activity as measured by sunspot number (SSN), interplanetary plasma/field parameters, solar-wind velocity [V] and magnetic field [B], as well as the tilt of the heliospheric current sheet [Λ] and analyse these data for Solar Cycles 20 - 24 (1965 - 2011). We divide individual Solar Cycles into four phases, i.e. low, high, increasing, and decreasing solar activity. We perform regression analysis to calculate and compare the CRI-response to changes in different solar/interplanetary parameters during (i) different phases of solar activity and (ii) similar activity phases but different polarity states. We find that the CRI-response is different during negative (A<0) as compared to positive (A>0) polarity states not only with SSN and Λ but also with B and V. The relative CRI-response to changes in various parameters, in negative (A<0) as compared to positive (A>0) state, is solar-activity dependent; it is ~2 to 3 times higher in low solar activity, ~1.5 to 2 times higher in moderate (increasing/decreasing) activity, and it is nearly equal in high solar-activity conditions. Although our results can be ascribed to preferential entry of charged particles via the equatorial/polar regions of the heliosphere as predicted by drift models, these results also suggest that we should look for, any polarity-dependent response of solar wind and transport parameters in modulating CRI in the heliosphere.
