TITLE: Packed bed thermal energy storage for waste heat recovery in the iron and steel industry: An experimental study on powder hold-up and pressure drop
ARXIV ID: 2307.01585v2
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01585v2
RETRIEVAL DATE: 2026-08-05
RETRIEVAL METHOD: arxiv.org API
SOURCE VERIFICATION: arxiv API XML
DOMAIN HINT: pcm_2
AUTHORS: Paul Schwarzmayr; Felix Birkelbach; Heimo Walter; Florian Javernik; Michael Schwaiger
PUBLISHED: 2023-07-04T09:24:28Z

ABSTRACT:
Waste heat recovery in the energy intensive industry is one of the most important measures for the mitigation of climate change. The utilization of just a fraction of the theoretically available waste heat potential would lead to a significant reduction of the primary energy consumption and hence a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The present study examines the integration of a packed bed thermal energy storage for waste heat recovery in the iron and steel industry. Along with the highly fluctuating availability of excess heat the main difficulty of waste heat recovery in industrial processes is the high amount of powder that is transported by the hot exhaust gases. Therefore, investigations focus on the pressure drop and powder hold-up in a packed bed thermal energy storage that is operated with a gas-powder two phase exhaust gas as heat transfer fluid with the ultimate goal to assess its suitability and robustness under such challenging operational conditions. The results indicate, that 98 % of the powder that is introduced into the system with the heat transfer fluid during charging accumulates in the packed bed. Remarkably, most of the powder hold-up in the packed bed is concentrated near the surface at which the heat transfer fluid enters the packed bed. When reversing the flow direction of the heat transfer fluid to discharge the storage with a clean single phase gas, this gas is not contaminated with the powder that has been accumulated in previous charging periods. Further, the radial distribution of the powder hold-up in the packed bed is observed to be even which indicates that there is no risk of random flow channel formation that could affect the thermal performance (storage capacity, thermal power rate) of the system. The results reinforce the great potential of packed bed thermal energy storage systems for waste heat recovery in the energy intensive industry.
