TITLE: Synchronization of molecular electrochemical oscillators by photon-assisted entanglement
ARXIV ID: 2310.13360v1
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13360v1
RETRIEVAL DATE: 2026-08-05
RETRIEVAL METHOD: arxiv.org API
SOURCE VERIFICATION: arxiv API XML
DOMAIN HINT: electrochemical
AUTHORS: Serge Kernbach
PUBLISHED: 2023-10-20T08:53:43Z

ABSTRACT:
Formation of hydronium and carbonate ions from CO2 in the aqueous phase is a reversible process and can produce and consume ions. These equilibrium reactions represent molecular electrochemical oscillators with chaotic dynamics. As demonstrated in previous works, para- and ortho- isomers of water have different reactivity; weak variations of magnetic fields induce a low-energy spin conversion process between isomers and affect several chemical and physical parameters. In particular, it is expected that spin-controlled ionic reactivity can lead to macroscopic synchronization of microscopic electrochemical oscillators. This work explores this hypothesis by monitoring the high-resolution ionic dynamics and temperature of independent fluidic cells with electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. The occurrence of synchronization is studied in 4-16 cells grouped in one or several non-transparent containers; about 20 million of samples are analyzed. Synchronization effects are shown to occur primarily in the CO2 dissolving scenario on 3-10 minute scale. Without CO2 access, mutual synchronization is either non-existent or negligible. Maximal correlations with r>0.9 are achieved between 4-6 cells with one synchronization event per 8000 samples; with r>0.7, in up to 8-10 cells with one event per 3000 samples. Anti-phase correlations occur more frequently than in-phase correlations. The number of synchronization events is about five times lower when cells are separated between non-transparent containers. We also noted a generation of in-phase and anti-phase temperature-impedance waves highly synchronized between independent cells. To explain such results, we consider molecular quantum networks that operate with spin conversion of water isomers. Weak coupling between oscillators in independent cells can be introduced by photon-assisted entanglement triggered by slight variations of magnetic fields.
