TITLE: Coherently Driven Quantum Harmonic Oscillator Battery
ARXIV ID: 2401.07238v1
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.07238v1
RETRIEVAL DATE: 2026-08-05
RETRIEVAL METHOD: arxiv.org API
SOURCE VERIFICATION: arxiv API XML
DOMAIN HINT: sodium_battery
AUTHORS: Kuldeep Gangwar; Anirban Pathak
PUBLISHED: 2024-01-14T09:41:48Z

ABSTRACT:
Quantum harmonic oscillator (QHO) battery models have been studied with significant importance in the recent past because these batteries are experimentally realizable and have high ergotropy and capacity to store more than one quanta of energy. QHO battery models are reinvestigated here to answer a set of fundamental questions: Do such models have any benefit? Is unbounded charging possible? Does the use of a catalyst system enhance the energy transfer to quantum batteries? These questions are answered both numerically and analytically by considering a model that allows a laser to shine on a QHO charger that interacts with a QHO battery. In contrast to some of the existing works, the obtained answers are mostly negative. Specifically, in the present work, the laser frequency is tuned with the frequency of the global charger-battery system, which is affected by the interaction between QHOs. It is reported that for a fixed laser field amplitude $\textit{F}$, the battery can store more energy when tuned with the frequency of the global charger-battery system compared to energy stored by tuning the laser frequency with local frequencies of the charger and battery. The charging process of the open QHO, which is a simplified model, and the self-discharging (dissipation) process after switching off the laser field are also investigated to reveal that the charging process of QHO in the simplified model is faster than the charging process of the catalytic (non-catalytic) battery. Further, it's observed that the self-discharging process is almost two times faster than the charging process which makes such models unstable against interaction with the environment.
