TITLE: Observation and Modeling of Small Spatial Structures of Solar Radio Noise Storms using the uGMRT
ARXIV ID: 2507.08093v1
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2507.08093v1
RETRIEVAL DATE: 2026-08-05
RETRIEVAL METHOD: arxiv.org API
SOURCE VERIFICATION: arxiv API XML
DOMAIN HINT: hydrogen
AUTHORS: Surajit Mondal; Peijin Zhang; Devojyoti Kansabanik; Divya Oberoi; Gillian Pearce
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-10T18:10:28Z

ABSTRACT:
One of the most commonly observed solar radio sources in the metric and decametric wavelengths is the solar noise storm. These are generally associated with active regions and are believed to be powered by the plasma emission mechanism. Since plasma emission emits primarily at the fundamental and harmonic of the local plasma frequency, it is significantly affected by density inhomogeneities in the solar corona. The source can become significantly scatter-broadened due to the multi-path propagation caused by refraction from the density inhomogeneities. Past observational and theoretical estimates suggest some minimum observable source size in the solar corona. The details of this limit, however, depends on the modeling approach and details of the coronal turbulence model chosen. Hence pushing the minimum observable source size to smaller values can help constrain the plasma environment of the observed sources. In this work, we for the first time, use data from the upgraded Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope in the 250--500 MHz band, to determine multiple instances of very small-scale structures in the noise storms. We also find that these structures are stable over timescales of 15--30 minutes. By comparing the past observations of Type III radio bursts and noise storms, we hypothesize that the primary reason behind the detection of these small sources in noise storm is due to the local environment of the noise storm. We also build an illustrative model and propose some conditions under which the minimum observable source size predicted by theoretical models, can be lowered significantly.
