TITLE: All-solid-state battery
PATENT_NUMBER: US20240194939A1
ABSTRACT:
An all-solid-state battery, including an all-solid-state battery laminate including at least one all-solid-state unit cell in which a positive electrode current collector layer, a positive electrode active material layer, a solid electrolyte layer, a negative electrode active material layer, and a negative electrode current collector layer are laminated in this order, and a resin layer covering a side surface of the all-solid-state battery laminate. At least one surface of at least one of the positive electrode current collector layer and the negative electrode current collector layer includes a laminated part and an extending part. The laminated part is a portion which overlaps another adjacent layer, and the extending part is a portion which extends beyond the other adjacent layer. The surface roughness of the extending part is greater than the surface roughness of the laminated part.

CLAIMS:
( 11 ) 1 . A method for manufacturing a bipolar-type all-solid-state battery, wherein the bipolar-type all-solid-state battery comprises an all-solid-state battery laminate and a resin layer covering a side surface of the all-solid-state battery laminate, wherein the all-solid-state battery laminate comprises at least one all-solid-state unit cell in which a positive electrode current collector layer, a positive electrode active material layer, a solid electrolyte layer, a negative electrode active material layer, and a negative electrode current collector layer are laminated in this order, wherein at least one surface of at least one of the positive electrode current collector layer and the negative electrode current collector layer includes a laminated part and an extending part, wherein the laminated part is a portion which overlaps another adjacent layer, and the extending part is a portion which extends beyond the other adjacent layer, wherein the surface roughness of the extending part is 2.50 times or more greater than the surface roughness of the laminated part, wherein a surface of the extending part and the laminated part is an embossed surface, wherein the material of the resin layer is, an acrylic resin, a polyimide resin, a polyester resin, a polystyrene resin, a polyvinyl chloride resin, or a polycarbonate resin, and wherein the method comprises: (i) forming an embossing surface on the positive electrode current collector layer and the negative electrode current collector layer, (ii) providing the all-solid-state battery laminate, (iii) covering a side surface of the all-solid-battery laminate by resin layer. 2 . The method for manufacturing the bipolar all-solid-state battery according to claim 1 , wherein at least one surface of each of the positive electrode current collector layers and the negative electrode current collector layers includes the laminated part and the extending part. 3 . The method for manufacturing the bipolar all-solid-state batt...
