TITLE: Metamaterials-Enhanced Passive Radiative Cooling Panel
PATENT_NUMBER: US20160363396A1
ABSTRACT:
A low-cost passive radiative cooling panel includes an emitter layer disposed under an upper reflective layer, where the emitter layer includes metamaterial nanostructures (e.g., tapered nanopores) configured to dissipate heat in the form of radiant energy that is transmitted through the reflective layer into cold near-space. In an embodiment the emitter layer includes ultra-black material configured to emit, with an emissivity close to unity, radiant energy having wavelengths/frequencies that fall within known atmospheric transparency windows (e.g., 8-13 μm or 16-28 μm). In a practical embodiment the emitter layer is formed using a modified Anodic Aluminum Oxide (AAO) self-assembly technique followed by electroless plating that forms metal-plated tapered nanopores. The reflective layer includes a distributed Bragg reflector configured to reflect at least 94% of incident solar light while passing the emitted radiant energy, and in some embodiments is implemented using a low-cost, commercially available solar mirror film.

CLAIMS:
( 22 ) 1 . A passive radiative cooling panel comprising: an emitter layer including a plurality of metamaterial nanostructures configured to dissipate heat by generating radiant energy that is emitted from a surface of the emitter layer, wherein the metamaterial nanostructures are further configured such that at least a portion of said generated radiant energy having wavelengths corresponding to one or more atmospheric transparency windows is emitted with an emissivity of at least 0.998; and an upper layer having a downward-facing surface facing the surface of the emitter layer and an opposing upward-facing surface, wherein the upper layer is configured to reflect incident solar radiation directed onto the upward-facing surface, and configured to transmit at least said portion of said radiant energy emitted from the emitter layer, whereby said portion of said radiant energy is transmitted through the upward-facing surface of the upper layer. 2 . The passive radiative cooling panel according to claim 1 , wherein the emitter layer comprises a base material layer including an array of said metamaterial nanostructures arranged in an ultra-black metamaterial-based pattern that is configured to generate said portion of said radiant energy with wavelengths corresponding to said one or more atmospheric transparency windows. 3 . The passive radiative cooling panel according to claim 2 , wherein the ultra-black metamaterial-based pattern is further configured to generate said portion of said radiant energy with wavelengths in the ranges including 8 μm to 13 μm and 16 μm to 28 μm. 4 . The passive radiative cooling panel according to claim 2 , wherein the ultra-black material is configured to generate broadband radiant energy including both said portion of said radiant energy with wavelengths corresponding to said one or more atmospheric transparency windows, and also a non-ATW portion having wavelengths outside of said one or more atmospheric transparency windows, and wherein ...
